the easiest way to fail at video game
development is to never try but let's
assume you do try here's how to fail so
you've decided to just make a platformer
because why not i mean most games are
and the reason why is because they
provide an environment where the player
can experiment with a unique and
interesting mechanic
so in order to fail remember not to add
any unique or interesting mechanics
instead you only need typical platforms
and enemies and then you can trust your
unique story shown in small snippets of
bad dialogue to set your game apart from
all the other games that do the exact
same thing right remember a large part
of what makes a platforming environment
good is all about player movement so
spend as little time as possible
fine-tuning the player movement and
platform size to accommodate your
mechanic which you don't even need and
instead just make the player movement
quickly right at the very beginning and
call it good enough so you can move on
to more interesting and important parts
of development like the main menu
if you do fine-tune the controls and
platform sizes lean more towards
precision platformer than anything else
in the end every platformer should be a
precision platformer rage game to be
honest it's better for players to be
frustrated over very minor parts of your
game because the only thing that makes a
platformer good is how unnecessarily
difficult it is to get from point a to
point b besides it's not your game
that's bad the players are just bad at
playing it any platformer whether it's
2d or 3d is all about great movement
that feels good so make yours feel bad
don't add things like jump buffering or
coyote time that way the players can
blame their mistakes on your bad design
these things are just crutches for weak
players the classics didn't have it so
why should yours
also don't add options for different
kinds of satisfying movement that might
give the player some sense of freedom to
play the way they think would be the
most fun instead keep everything as
simple and boring as possible you're the
game designer you know it's fun if you
must add options though the two
necessities that every platformer should
have no matter what is a double jump and
dash ability especially if they don't
make any sense got a knight in shining
armor you betcha he can jump on air
particles got a cave diving adventurer
of course they can rocket themselves
forward a few yards using willpower
alone it doesn't even matter what your
main mechanic is dash and double jump
only make your game better i mean
everybody's doing it so it must be a
good idea right
anyway if you follow these instructions
carefully you are bound to succeed at
failure
thank you so much for watching that it
really means a lot to me let me know
what genre you'd like me to tell you how
to fail at next
um
or not
whatever i don't care i'm sure i can
think of something i mean it's not that
hard to think of stuff anybody can think
of things i don't need your help